I don't know, but what you're working on, this could be... But you kind of see it as religion of the...
I have no idea what it is.
It's all in fact or German.
But I thought you, you know, let's have you work on that.
Oh, well, fine.
Do any of your German reading friends and let's try it down.
Look at the interesting engraving, though, too.
Well, one is holding philosophy, the other is holding a Bible.
Wisdom or sapientia is radiating from a cloud.
And I don't know whether this is making fun of people who write...
Religious or anti-religious stuff or what it is, but anyway, there you are.
Given what you're writing, I thought that might be of some interest.
Thank you.
I will.
That's like many of those things you... I've got to get that magic number here.
I'll find you pack them in because you know they're going to be interesting sometimes, and
And you wonder when the sometimes... Yeah, that's great.
How long is the book?
I mean, is it... It's about 150, 200 pages.
I mean, it's a real book.
It's not a spoon for anything.
I don't know.
It might.
It could be.
It's a spoon.
It's a... It's a considerable spoon.
Well, it could be one of those philosophical...
Which is kind of fun, too.
You know, a philosophical disquisition of how stupid all these controversialists are and ridiculing religion.
Thank you for coming too.
It's me.
See if I ever come when they're having a box-building convention again.
I took that.
I took a limo in.
A limo.
I'm a man.
In other words, you didn't have a private cab.
I didn't have a private cab.
We had a long chat.
As he told me, I absolutely had to meet you.
Well, what are you writing about in this new book?
It's about... Dave Kirshenbaum.
Well, back when I was about 14, I started going for anything 18th century I could find loose.
If it's cheap, I'll buy it.
I used to buy things from time to time when I was in graduate school from Carnegie Bookshop, second floor, right across from Bloomingdale.
And I would pop in there occasionally when I didn't have too much loose money to spend, but it was always an interesting place to go.
Well, one day I was in New York.
Are you getting anything here?
No, I can't.
If it's real good, I'll hold it up.
No, it's fine.
That is lovely to use it.
One day I was in New York.
I suppose this was about five or six years ago.
And late one night, I looked at the yellow pages to book dealers to see if there was anything I was missing.
Well, here was Carnegie Bookshop.
And I thought, this is extraordinary.
I thought that place closed years to come.
But here it was on, I think, something like 61st Street, 9 East 61st Street.
So just off this, that was worse.
five, six years ago.
Oh, so it's 57.
No, it's 65.
That's why five, six years ago is when I went to interview him in this very same shop.
Upstairs, little table.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, in that room there.
So I went in there, and it is the same guy.
He was 95 or 96 or 97.
He was at the age of 99.
He just died.
No, he had been in the book business since 1916 or some... It's better than that.
He's attended every major auction in New York.
From the Hole to the Manny, from 1912 to 1992.
He was a runner.
He claims to have been a runner.
At age.
Well, whatever.
Age 12 or whatever.
Even if it's apocryphal.
I put it in the book.
It was too good.
Yeah, yeah.
We don't want to check on this story.
It might not be right.
So many stories are too good.
Well, so I went in there.
And I bought all kinds of wonderful things.
He was practically giving them away.
I think he probably had a customer there at a month.
I stumbled in.
Here's a letter signed J. Mill.
I'm not sure whether it was Jon Stewart or James.
For five bucks, I wasn't on equivalent.
And you bought it?
No.
Something else from an English admiral.
Same price.
A wonderful ink.
and wash drawing of Paganini dancing on a violin.
That's a period piece.
That was maybe $10, $5 or $10.
And an album I still haven't figured out.
The paper is watermarked 1812, but it copies out all kinds of 18th century English doggoal verse and notes on who wore what at court.
It's obviously connected with the nobility.
I still haven't deciphered it, but it was a wondrous day of picking up things I least expected
and he was clearly just interested in parking them someplace where somebody wanted them.
And that's Dave.
That is Dave.
I don't know if you've read the Texas chapter of my book yet.
It's one of those things I read around him.
You say, what's he doing in Texas?
Because I was really writing about Luke Feldman.
But he knew Feldman, and Feldman wanted Dave to join ranks with him to sell to Texas.
So I really write at length.
I go off in one of these long, discursive,
things in Dave Kirshen.
It's really, if you'll enjoy this.
All right.
He talked about building collections.
Bradley Martin was his, you know, Bradley Martin's principal supplier.
Anyway, go ahead.
I'm sorry.
Well, so anyway, this has been the
The Cohen sisters at Argosy told me he had died.
One time I came and I said, your old friend there had died.
As I said, how long has this man been in the book business?
And they told me a little bit about him.
Yeah.
In fact, I've got his old bit in the book, in the footnotes.
I'll look that up.
I have my dark connection.
He's in the footnotes, and there's a long, I must say, at least 1,500, 2,000 words on him in a Texas chapter.
Mm-hmm.
Well, we don't just talk about Feldman.
We talk about what he did for NYU.
We talk about the Barrow collection.
He's got these collections.
He talks about the course he fails, whose wife told her it's either you or the books.
Let's go with the books.
You know, he's a certain age.
You know, I think that there are a lot of areas where you can help me.
And you
I love the fact that you're a president of a university here.
Well, there are several things, I think.
One of them that I would face straight out that I did mentally when somebody posed the question to me.
I am fascinated by early material just for itself.
It doesn't have to mean or be anything.
Oh, I love that quote.
Run with that.
Yeah.
Let me say it again.
No, no, that's right.
I get it the first time, but I like what you're talking about.
The man says, ooh, I'm working on that.
Stephen Jay Gould tells me he can't work from anything but the real stuff.
Oh, yeah.
He has a book.
He came out and gave a lecture, and he started talking about somebody that I thought only a book collector's would know about that.
I'm seeing his collection now in Soho.
Well, he gave me his address.
I haven't been to see him yet.
It's on Green Street.
And he said, you got an original of Archbishop Usher?
He said, oh, yeah.
Usher is the guy we should be celebrating.
that said the world was created in 4004, so this is the 6,000... That's the T.S.'
's, right?
Yeah, U.S.S.H.E.R.
Not bad, right?
Yeah.
Anyway, so a long time ago, when I was first beginning to collect all this stuff one way and another, somebody said to me, well, you're interested in that just for what it tells you about today, right?
Because it gives you a perspective on today.
A long time ago, when I was teaching, when I taught at Connecticut College from 68 to 84, some time in there.
So you were already professionally formed, shall we say?
Well, in terms of, I started in high school collecting things, and then in college, whenever Northfield, Minnesota, not too much 18th century stuff was floating around loose, but occasionally I would find an English piece in the library for a duplicate sale.
I wouldn't be pleased about that now, but I was glad to buy it then.
So anytime something fell my way that I could afford, I'd add it to the old grouping.
I brought you some lists here so you could see.
And so this person said, well, you buy this just so you understand today better, you know, having a very modern utilitarian ring to all this.
And finally I learned to say, no, not at all, absolutely not.
These things are just interesting for themselves.
That's like saying a Bach fugue helps me understand the New York subway or problems of an urban environment.
No such thing.
It's just a beautiful thing in itself.
It can be appreciated without transforming it into some utilitarian link to something else.
This is not to say it doesn't make connections or have interesting aspects, but that, I think, is a very interesting thing.
thing about what you're doing that is if I collect federal furniture obviously I can sit on it I can use it at home it has a utilitarian value it's pretty it's nice it's also valuable and when I'm done with it I can sell it or do any other thing if I collect medieval bronzes I
I can look at them in a case to a limit, but I can't sit down.
They don't have that.
I can substitute this for something that otherwise would come from Woolworths or a department store or a current manufacturer at all.
With books, I think, and book people, I really believe that you walk in a room and you walk in a room
And as one of the writers on the decorative arts said in the 1870s, what you see in a room tells you what's in a mind.
Oh, I like to see.
Well, it's true.
This lady said, if you want to be impressive, make sure you have a bust of Napoleon and a few grapes and a picture of Jesus and, you know, all kinds of things to show the multiple facets of your mind.
And if you say a room represents a mind,
That's a scary thing sometimes.
Do you believe that you subscribe to him?
I do.
I think that people often surround themselves with what interests them.
And when I met a historian who had a reproduction map of, I don't know, Denmark or Germany or something on his wall, I would have dated about 1740, 1790.
A historian, an academic historian, right?
And I said, what is this map?
And he said, I don't know.
It just was decorative.
I knew something about that historian, in terms of his basic curiosity of the environment 10 feet around him.
But you go to houses, and people, more than they realize, reveal themselves by what they have sitting around.
When I was a book reviewer, we'll go beyond that.
You know, you'd like to know what people wanted to read beside their books.
Yes.
And that's really privileged information.
I decided, you know, you really do know, you really know a person by their reading habits.
When this is what they want to read or they want to collect.
The interesting thing about collecting the way I do, and I will just tell you, I really mean my motto,
It doesn't scan well dramatically.
Anything I can find cheap, 18th century, I'll buy.
Is anything.
Any country, any... Japan, China, Europe... Why do some people like vanilla and not chocolate?
Well, the 18th is easier, it's closer.
I suppose it's a fascination formed as a child with Williamsburg, Philadelphia, the revolution, colonial American history, but oddly doesn't go back to the 1600s as vigorously.
But as a fascination with the music, with the art, the architecture, virtually every aspect of what seems to be still the classic taste, and that is
Just look around this room.
Now, it borders from, I suppose, the Biedermeyer to the, you know, that's a non-Pierre light.
This is shades of a 17th century ceiling.
I suppose it averages after the 18th century, one way or another.
Let me just interrupt for a second.
Kirsten, instead of you getting a book and sending it to me, why don't you just write down who I should describe it to it?
I get books at home.
Oh, wonderful, wonderful.
Does that make more sense?
Yeah, let me just start right now.
Then I'll give you a check right in a second.
To William Horne.
William Horne.
libraries are and remain libraries are and remain a place for books a place to not only learn facts but experience cultural artifacts that is it's one thing to know that as sometimes said virgil was the great classic author of one century herodota or horus the great classic weatherman 18th century and you
You take out the editions, and you fold out the plates, and you look at the printing, and it's red and black, and it's interesting, and you see the notes, and you see the students' notes, and it's all very different from reading one of the Harvard classics, or reading a modern zippy paperback translation, when you actually touch the stuff of another century.
It's like Addison's essay on coins and metals as being basic to the library of a gentleman.
That's just how you know something about the Greeks and the Romans.
You have several drawers full of it.
So I took out this 1775 book, beautiful little gem of a thing, a tiny French book, as they did, kind of do a decimal size, and it was five dollars, leather bound, complete.
It had one on the spine, so they probably thought it was an odd volume, but it was complete in itself.
And I checked the price just to make sure it wasn't a 1910 price.
Nope.
They said, that's ours, $5.
So I showed it to him.
He kept looking at it, looking at it with great delight.
This is a horn.
Mr. Horn, yes.
And then I pulled out something that I had saw for several years and finally had found in Minnesota, James Bond's Birds of the Caribbean.
Well, if you know the secret agent, Fleming actually named him.
He was writing the stories.
He was stumped.
He had the character down.
but he needed a name.
That's great.
I don't know this.
And on his coffee table or someplace in his house, I think at Jamaica, was a book on Birds of the Caribbean by James Bond, who I think is American, not even English, ornithologist.
How many Bond collectors would pay thousands of dollars?
$12.50.
This is a later edition.
If they knew this, they'd have to have that book.
Oh, yeah, exactly.
So I pulled it out.
And I handed it to Mr. Horne, and he said, oh, yes, yes, yes, yes.
And I'm still not sure whether he knew the James Bond story, I mean, the movie story.
He said, oh, yes, Bond's Bird of the Caribbean.
I have this.
I'm a birder.
I'm very interested in birds.
Now, is this the first edition or the second edition?
Now, what was the point of this little show on television?
I don't know.
It's just the kind of enthusiasm people share, whether others want it or not.
But you didn't know yet whether or not he was a book man.
No, I didn't, but it turned out he was a book fanatic.
You've just kind of flown your fly on the water here, right?
Yes.
Many people come in and say, gee, the Bears really did great last night, or didn't the Expos do well?
Did they?
I don't know.
Let me show you what I found here from 1720.
I mean, that's my version of a sports story.
So I'm...
we're talking about libraries, so I wanted to show him that.
Well, not only did he know about Pond, he had used it, and he had several editions himself.
He'd been to Jamaica, he'd been to Trinidad, looking at Burns, using this book.
And so there was a good deal of back and forth, whether it was a first edition or not.
And we later went down the hall to look at his office to see whether he had it, and it was at home.
But before I left,
I said, where are there any other bookshops right around here?
Just like me, you know.
My plane doesn't go until 315.
He said, well, look at Leon's on 9th Street, Minneapolis.
So I went into Leon's, and it turns out there are two of them, Mr. and Mrs., each run a shop.
So Mr. sent me to one after I'd found some very interesting books with him.
And Mrs.,
said, I said, do you have a cookery section?
A what section?
Cookery.
And I said, as she said, you'll see it's a very small world here.
So this is how the Louise F. Murray connection comes together years later again.
No, this is not years later, last week.
It came.
So, I mean, this is just a week and a half ago.
So, do you have a cookery section?
Yes.
There was a very nice man named Zathmer, who used to come in here all the time and look at the cookery section, and his wife, she was Japanese.
I think her name was Saba or Sada or something like that.
She would come in very patiently and finally say, Louis, don't you think you've looked at those enough now?
Couldn't we go home?
And both people knew Mr. Horn.
What the point is, in the...
first place I went, because he sent me, and we talked about birth.
Here was a book, four volumes, British Ornithology, or British Zoology, 1768-1770.
It'll take me a minute to come.
Thomas Pennant, P-N-N-A-N-T, is the author.
This is the kind of symmetry there is in the world.
So I called him up, all excited.
The next day I said, thank you, thank you, thank you for sending me to this
book, to this bookshop.
I told him about this set.
And I said, there's so many engravings of birds that I thought I might copy for you.
Tell me, what's your favorite bird?
Well, the Dartford Warbler.
I never heard of the Dartford Warbler.
Probably neither did you.
And so I said, okay, I'll see if I can find a Dartford Warbler.
Well, wonder of wonders, this book was finished in 1770, the fourth volume.
The guy who wrote it
was the very man who described the category of warlords in 1773.
And there's just a kind of weird serendipity in all of this that makes life much more interesting.
It's weirdly incomprehensible to those who don't belong to this club, you know.
It happens more often than it doesn't.
It happens.
I call it, you know, and of course it sounds spiritual, but it's not.
I mean, I sometimes feel there's a hand directing me, ledging me to something.
I have it.
I used to think it was a joke.
Have you ever... Did you feel that?
I mean, sometimes it's eerie.
I mean, I'll be at home thinking I need something.
I'm writing.
And it's frustrating.
And look, and it's...
Right there, and you were looking for it for three years.
Wilmarth Lewis.
Have you ever read Wilmarth Lewis?
He's in my book.
Okay.
He's one of the few people who wrote three autobiographies.
Did you ever go to his place when he was alive?
Not while he was alive.
But it's still there.
I did.
It was a magical experience.
Farmington's.
Robbery Hill.
Here's a guy.
I love this kind of people.
who pulls out a shelf list.
He had a card catalog then.
And you pull it out and it's practically solid pink.
And he said, this is a list of my 18th century prints.
The ones with the pink overlay are the ones the British Museum doesn't have.
You know, that kind of two-fisted, oh boy.
That's Sam Berger with his Moller's collection out there in Carmel.
It blows everybody away with what he has and what they don't have.
Well, I thought it was mystic funny.
when I read Lewis's biographies, that he would go to a party, go to a house, and he knew somehow he just intuited
that there were Walpole items in the house, and it was as though they had a mystic magnetic attraction.
And I believe that.
It's as though over there behind that piano, if we just look in that bookcase, we're going to find one.
And he would get up, and the hosts would sometimes look aghast.
He would actually move something and pull out a book, aha, this belonged to Walpole himself.
I don't have a Walpole nose, but 18th century nose I do have.
I was in a bookshop in Denver.
See, how did that stuff show up in places like Denver and Minneapolis?
Well, here's the point.
I don't know.
It just travels in clumps.
I went in the shop, and I said to the man, do you have any 18th century things?
And, of course, usually they think they mean Oxford Press reprints of Dr. Johnson or something like that.
I said, no, something printed in the 18th century.
No, I haven't taken it.
And I looked around, and I said, there is something here.
And in a few minutes, I had a quarto by Robert Sanderson, a piece on mathematics, big piece, one of two volumes, very sad shape, but on algebra, 1740, as a professor at Cambridge.
I said, look what I found.
You didn't have one, but you do.
20 bucks.
Nice.
It's really great that you can get these things.
And then a week ago after, well, before we went to Minneapolis, we were in Northfield, Minnesota.
I went to Carleton down there.
Carleton didn't have any bookshops in the 60s when I was there, or at Northfield, but does now.
And I went in and I said, do you have any 18th century material?
And he said, no, we don't have anything.
I said, well, that one's there.
You got one right there?
It's 18th century or earlier.
That's before you even picked it up.
Didn't even have to open the case.
Can you judge a book by its cover?
Absolutely.
No question.
People who think you can't don't know what they're talking about.
So I said, that's 18th century, so we got it out in 1749.
Very interesting, the only 18th century English book I've ever seen found in vellum, as though it were a 17th century Italian.
Not polished vellum, it's kind of rough, almost sweaty, but it is vellum.
And so we made a deal for that one, and it's Virgil's Bucallax, and I have it now.
Do you catalogue this stuff when you take it home or is it more... It was getting out of control.
Is it a casual collection?
It's casual in terms of acquisition, but I hope rather more organized once I get home.
I do have several foci, but the interesting thing is when you bring in simply what nature offers,
Very often.
Then you begin to see more about a time period.
You may not look for books on gardens or architecture, but if you begin to have them, and you look at them, and you pour over them, then you see more about architecture and gardens in the whole period.
That's more interesting.
This is normal stuff for an Orientalist.
I'll tell you about my Japanese books in a minute, but...
in Asian studies, China and Japan, there's a deep belief that calligraphy, poetry, art, culture, architecture, history, literature, all are a kind of almost like they're a gem.
And when you talk about any one of those things, you are simply looking at one facet of the whole gem, which amounts to the total culture.
In European and American studies, we don't see things quite that way.
We think that science is divorced from art and tend to be more departmental or categorical.
But the more you know, the more unity there is, and the more interesting things you find simply because you're operating outside the normal area.
Now, I brought a couple of showing tells for you.
One of the things that intrigued me about
Your account of Louie kind of pushed me over the edge was all these cookery things that he had.
We had another alum of Illinois Wesleyan who I got to know, John Gurney, and he was a great cookbook collector.
Cagle at Louie has come out with one volume that thick that's a bibliography of the Gurney Cookbooks, and he's now about to come out with a second one.
Well, knowing Gernon, then reading about Patmery, that's kind of the current version of my cookery stuff from the 1680s.
So, cookery and then food books, or garden books, that goes along with it.
So you can just see the kind of things I've been able to pick up here.
One of the things I resist is if you already have one book, is there any reason you shouldn't acquire another?
Do you have an island garden?
No.
Do you know the book?
You don't know the book?
No, no.
See, you faxed his book with it has some color.
Oh, Siri Baxter.
It's called An Island Gardener.
It's Appledore.
It's wonderful.
No, but my son went to the island a couple of years ago.
He just graduated from Andover.
I never saw a kid so taken with anything so interesting.
I never had heard of Celia Thaxter.
He was transfixed.
I was going to write a... So anyway, what am I saying here?
Oh, so these are a couple of the things that I have.
I also am very interested in musical things.
In another life, I'd have been probably, if I had a pick, Trevor Pinnock.
who is one of the great English harpsichord players, but he also has his little own group.
I have a great interest in music.
I probably don't have too many music collectors in your group, but I didn't bring this for you to... Keith, if you can look at it, I don't have a new version of this.
This is the music that I have.
This is the antiquarian music.
That's just my running list, so I know what I have and I don't have.
But I've got all of Corelli and a lot of the Valdi and Handel in 18th century printings.
So you have a computer file for this?
Is it a database?
Well, some of my record keepers are databases, but this is just a straight
text thing, and I put them in alphabetically, and it has a search function.
It's where it's perfect.
You can search that.
So that works pretty well for me.
But it keeps me from buying triples.
Doubles happen every now and then.
So you don't carry this with you.
Well, you know, sometimes if I'm going to a place where I know there's going to be a lot of cookery or a lot of this or a lot of that, I'll bring one of these lists along.
But most of the time I don't.
I'm being interested in music.
I am fascinated by the process of early music.
My watch is 15 minutes fast.
In terms of the face, I think you have the same... Oh, it's a Rolex.
Yours is a fancier one.
Mine is about 20 years old.
Mine is 28 years old.
1968.
I got this in graduate school.
Well, my parents gave me this when I was finishing up at Princeton.
I've worn it every day since, save for when it wasn't screwed in and I got salt water, and that didn't work too well.
Anyway, so I'm interested in the music.
Particularly, I've been fascinated by...
Early violins, early music.
I have a 1787 harpsichord, and what I've come to call my orchestra with no players, about 14 violins, three violas, two cellos, a bunch of other stuff.
Do you play any of these?
The harpsichord I do, and I'm beginning to attract a few players now, doing English things.
There's an amazing wealth of particularly English 18th century music,
but no one knows anything about.
So you collect these?
Yeah.
One of the fascinating aspects of collecting a bunch of things is you see lots of things that perhaps other people don't realize much about.
There's a wonderful line from Holmes.
Watson says, well, Holmes, I was with you the entire time.
How did you see all this?
And Holmes says, my dear Dr. Watson,
We saw the same things.
I simply observed them differently.
So the more things you see in a different way, the more observations you're ready to make.
We're doing a... Illinois Wesleyan is doing an exchange relation.
We're hoping to send a couple of our kids each year to Pembroke College, Oxford, as visiting students.
That's Dr. Johnson's college.
It's also...
Sir William Blackstone's college, and that's working out very interestingly.
We're going to start next year.
Can I just interrupt for a second?
Yeah.
The gentleman I had lunch with today, Abel Burland, have you ever heard of him?
Sure.
Caxton, Caxton, Caxton, and Caxton.
Abel's second folio of Shakespeare, his first folio was signed by John Dryden.
His second folio, the prokonans, is absolutely all the way through.
John's the one that Johnson used to prepare the... Right, the lives of the poets?
The man's fingerprints are... I've handled this book.
I mean, if you can't get a kick out of something like this... Well, I mean, that's the kind of talismanic thing, you know, put their hand on the object and enter another era that you just can't get with a computer screen.
Well...
There's a line for you.
Talismanic object that you just can't get with a computer screen.
But you go back to the music.
I was in London this summer.
I used to think, you know, this is, when I started out in this, people would tell me,
Now make sure, if you're going to buy books, always buy beautiful copies.
Every page there, beautiful bindings.
Spend as much as you can for the fewest number of books.
I am the absolute antithesis of that.
As I told a friend of mine, you collect bindings, I collect books.
I don't care if they have a cover.
Yeah, that's not an antiquarian attitude.
Well...
Well, it is, and this one friend I think of, he has the most elegant quartos.
He's decided to focus on quartos, and if you want to have an eat-your-heart-out day, you look at what he has.
Are you looking at the findings, or are you looking at the content?
Well, you're looking at both, and you think these are really lovely, whereas...
Mine may not have covers.
They're very wormy, and a page or two may be missing, but I haven't.
So could it be really quite irrelevant to you, or is it even if the word is too strong?
Well, again, it all depends on condition and price.
I would much rather, well, ideally you want a brilliant book for minimal price, but the best of all possible worlds is five books you really want at the price of one in pristine condition.
where you don't want them on.
But to go back to the music thing, when I was in London, a book dealer or a music dealer had made me an offer, which we were able to come to terms.
She had said, I have a group of miscellaneous parts from the 18th century.
Miscellaneous?
Parts.
You know, if you've got an orchestra, you've got a couple of violins, violas and cellos and basses and horns and flutes and things.
So you may have the flute part, but not the rest of the piece.
And you go back to the old maxim and collect things that are complete and perfect.
If you look at the catalogs of Who's Got Music,
you see that occasionally the British Museum is just happy to have the viola part.
They don't have anything else from this symphony.
They're just happy to have whatever fragment they've got.
I remember once in Dijon, here was a Viotti symphony lacking one part.
I didn't buy it.
One out of the twelve.
That was a very bad mistake because that's near complete.
with 12 parts.
I'm finding more and more, you just take what you can get.
And this lady had a stack that high for me, which I bought with the greatest of delight.
And when I came back, all this has something to do with Pembroke College, I discovered that I had the concertos of Richard Mudge.
Well, I began working on Mudge, about whom I knew nothing, M-U-D-G-E.
And Mudge,
was a graduate of Pembroke College.
About when?
1720s or 30s.
His father was a friend of Johnson.
Was his name familiar to you?
No.
Well, I think I'd heard it as one of the very, very lesser known British composers.
But the people at Pembroke College, when I called them a few weeks ago, seemed to know nothing of much whatsoever.
You know more about him than... Well, I've just been lucky.
I've just been lucky.
I get these things, and I get curious about what I have.
He's lost, but he's found at the same time.
Other people have reprinted him.
You can get it in a Xerox.
I don't have a complete set, and I know a man in England who can provide the missing parts, but the point is that he was a bit lost to his own college at Pembroke.
I hope we can do something about that.
by playing him or doing very interesting i mean he had heard handle on many occasions when you when you play through some of the things he has but um that's the wondrous thing about bringing home a pile of miscellaneous stuff you don't really know what it is sorting through it and just seeing what you've got i mean there are cynics and i'm not one of them who might say well maybe much
You know, we talk about the evolution of species.
You know, the rightfully obscure Richard Mudd.
And I'm not saying one way or the other.
For the antiquarian, there's an old joke.
Beethoven, Beethoven.
Wasn't he a contemporary of Albrecht's Berger?
I think so.
That kind of thing.
But look at it this way.
And this is where I have to go back on what I said.
Does the ancient tell you anything about the modern?
There are two people about whom no one knows very much at all in the general public.
One is Joseph de Bologna, Chevalier Saint-Georges.
I'll spell that out for you if you want it later.
And the other is Ignacio Sanchez, S-A-N-C-H-E-D.
Both of them are musicians of the 18th century.
Sanchez wrote just a few little minuets.
Whom you discovered as a collector, or that you mean as a star?
Well, as a kind of... I'm officially, you see, a PhD in political science.
I'm full of curiosity about things musical.
And so I found him, and also the Chevalier Saint-Georges.
Well...
Let's see.
Sanchez published in 1775 in London some minuets and dances.
Chevalier Saint-Georges was a great multi-talented character in Louis XVI's France.
He was a swordsman, he was a dancer, he was a composer, he was an army officer, very much a man about town.
He was a writer.
He was virtually everything.
I mean, literally, he was going out in a competition.
I don't know what kind of sword fighting they did without killing people, but he was very good at it.
The interesting thing is he was born in the Caribbean.
He was half black.
His mother was a slave.
His father was a French official.
Sanchez was born on a slave ship as he crossed
the Atlantic with his parents on the way from Africa to slavery in the New World.
He later wound up in England, where one of the dukes took interest in him, and... Well, it is.
And the point is that they... I was just down in Jamaica a couple of weeks ago.
They don't know anything about either of these people.
And this is... People who live in Jamaica.
I mean, the government officials, cultural leaders.
People who should know.
Well, people not who should know, but who just haven't found him, who, if they find him, will find a whole depth to their culture they'd never imagined before.
Take the Czechs, for example.
There's a general opinion, I suppose, that Czechs came to America
in the late 19th century, the 20th century, and they are basically an immigrant people of a rather late coming as the American waves of immigration go, which may be true.
I'm not sure I've really worked on it, but I can tell you this, that long before a single check was present on North America,
Von Hall, Stamets, and on and on the list goes of Czech composers were played in New York, Philadelphia, Boston in the 1700s.
It's very interesting when you think about global Baroque.
In fact, one of the most interesting pieces in this whole genre is a Scott.
named William Hamilton Bird, Bird, B-I-A-D, B-I-R-D.
This is coming up in an auction later this month.
I may go for it.
I already have a Xerox of it.
He was a Scottish officer, and he went to India, Calcutta, and in 1783 or five or seven published a piece called Hindustani Heirs, which is an attempt
to do just what you're doing with your little black machine here, to use a harpsichord as a tape recorder.
In other words, he heard the equivalent of Ravi Shankar play native Indian music, and he tried to transcribe it for harpsichord, or at least that's what he says.
Absolutely fascinating.
That one's been preserved.
It's quite likely there were composers in Western style in Japan
in the 1600s, before the Jesuits got thrown out in the 1630s, because we know they went to Italy to study music, violins, organ, singing.
They came back to Japan.
They had to be doing something.
But any trace of what they were actually doing is lost.
So there's a whole world to be discovered out there.
Herschel is one of my favorites.
Herschel
actually discovered the planet Uranus in 1781.
He was, in fact, a musician.
Well, I'm writing this book on multi-talented people, and, you know, you learn something about one area, and then you find still another.
One of the things we want to work on, I hope, is
is a ballad opera, Lord of the Manor, which was written by General John Burgundy at the University of Illinois, Leslie, and the music.
So you're trying to get people interested in some of this stuff.
You know, at some point, I would like to talk about, you know, all this, and how you bring this into the context of the universe.
Do you?
Well, I tried.
I tried.
You know, being an administrator, you're always suspect from the outset.
Yeah, but you certainly influence the agenda such as it is, I would think.
The attitude.
I told you what I ran into with Cornell.
I mean, interesting, isn't it?
That's got to be coming from somewhere.
I was told the trustees.
Wow.
Trustees usually do what administrators put in front of them.
That's what you said.
Can I quote you on that?
No.
No, I think we're all set.
Thank you.
No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
That's usually the way it works.
I mean, you can just suggest this without attribution.
Of course, yeah.
Because trustees come to town two or three times a year.
They may take a leader of the board, stays in touch with the president, but usually in most boards, that's the way it works.
I mean, he really liked this stuff.
He's not smart.
He's enormously wealthy.
F-R-O-W-A-R-D.
Which means, but check your dictionary what it means.
Haven't used it in a long time.
F-R-O-W-A-R-D.
Is not a misspelling of forward.
But most kids won't know that.
So when you have somebody correcting something they do not understand and throwing away the original, history is in peril.
Like that, history is in peril.
That's my thought.
Well, I'll tell you another one.
I had a book dealer tell me.
I looked at the woman in total shock.
Did you tell her?
This is not cool.
I said, Ann.
Tell me this isn't happening.
Take it from a guy who's written the book.
I said, you know, I'm a fucking mistake.
What'd she say?
She said, you know, we have a board.
We have guidelines.
And she gave me the book of the guidelines.
And my feeling about it.
Tell the guidelines to go take a hike.
Every one of us is but a big player in the chain of history.
And once we throw something out, it's gone for another century.
Archaeologists got the message along the way.
Now, does that sort of appall you?
It happens that I stumbled upon it, but again, you talk about the unseen hand pushing you there?
Well, no archaeologist would do anything like that.
How can you throw anything away that's archival?
Well, you see, the difference is, it used to be the librarians saw themselves as the keepers
the protectors of the faculty's books.
Now they see themselves as managers of information.
They're intellectual fascists in many ways, aren't they?
I wouldn't say fascists.
They see themselves as managers of information, as keepers of facts rather than protectors of wisdom.
And the idea that the addition, the printing, the visual presentation,
may carry something apart from the words of the text is a point lost on some librarians.
I once had a library candidate tell me no one needed the National Union catalog, that all useful bibliographic data was in the computer databases.
You don't need to know how many copies there were or any of those fussy things who could own this copy or that copy.
You know, you may sometimes get a basic description.
I must say the database is improved year by year, but still the National Union catalog is a wonderful resource.
And with absolute delight, last week I bought a copy of Pollard and Redgrave, that great bibliography of books before 1640.
Oh, that's the STC, right?
Yeah, well, I still haven't been able to figure out how to get that one on my computer, but I'd like to.
But anyway, I haven't finished about the music thing.
That's all right, that's all right.
But you don't mind these little things?
No, no, no, my life is a divergence.
But that's really true.
But if you think of early music, there was a time when people thought playing Bach on the piano was really quite fine.
And now most people who try to play Bach would play not only on a harpsichord, but on early versions of a violin rather than the post-1800.
Well, the thing that has fascinated me... Is it a different class?
It's a different sound.
It's a different sound with gut strings, a slightly different violin.
Would he visualize it?
Oh, he might visualize it.
He might recognize the tune, he'd recognize the tone.
But it's not what he heard.
It's not what he heard in his own mind.
And that's the interesting question.
If you recreate a piece of art, we can either do it as we restore a painting or restore a piece of music to what we think we would like, and inevitably that comes in in any way.
any case, whether we believe it or not.
Or what we think the artist had in mind, whether we like it or not, you know, this may be god-awful, but it's authentic, is one judgment, rather than this is the way I would like to play it, regardless of whether it was the way Bach did it or not.
It's all summarized in, I think it was Wanda Wandauska.
who began to say, you play Bach your way, I'll blame his way.
I love that.
Well, it's a wonderful line, and it illustrates that.
Where would I find that quote?
I don't know.
Book on Wanda Landoska.
So I began to wonder, and I've wondered about this for 20 years.
If you go to Williamsburg, you see all these authentically restored houses, and you go to Chowning's Tavern, and you eat ye olde food off a
Armatel plate with a guy in knee-bridges, serving something that came, that tastes like it came out of ho-cho's.
And sneaking up the alley and smoking.
So I began to wonder, with my penchant for things antiquarian, without the slightest use anywhere in mind for the conclusion,
what was food like back then.
And that's one of the reasons that I've put together this cookery collection.
It's really an 18th century collection, and all these later things are things that have really come along along the way.
And this is another one.
So is this what led to your project?
Oh, I don't know.
It all goes together.
To your meeting Chef Louis?
Well, that's why I was really interested in
and talking to him.
This is called Baroque Cuisine, English Cookery in the Time of Handel and Heidel.
Oh, an attempt to, you know, a cookery book.
I don't know anything about cookery books.
Are you working on this?
Yes, but, you know, that doesn't prevent me.
Have you tried to sell this?
No.
You should.
I've finished writing it so far.
Have you tried the recipes?
No.
Well, I've left out
Well, look how many there are, and you'll see why.
That's the essence of a cookbook.
Or is it?
You see, that's what we were persuaded about 1840 and 1850, that a cookbook is for idiots who don't know anything.
And you put in a quarter teaspoon of this, a quarter teaspoon of that, and this is what the recipe is, whether you like it or not.
Whereas the 18th century, in music and in food, was
Here's the basic outline.
Add such ornaments as you will to make the piece the way you'd like it.
And when the 18th century contemporary writers produced their book, they put in, it said, add salt, pepper, and nutmeg.
They didn't say anything about how much to put in.
That was left to the judgment of the artist.
So whose products are these?
Yours or somebody else's?
Did you have an interlude?
No, no, no, no.
I'm not that far along.
Oh, the comments are all mine.
This is just draft eight or whatever it is.
I don't know.
But I just got some interesting new books, really fancy ones from 1716 and 1730, this early period.
There's a book just published by Getty, the Getty Library, which I just trust, which I just received a review copy on.
It's classically cooked on this.
You should know about it.
And it's...
There are no cookbooks from a classic area, but apparently they've culled some recipes from various sources.
I haven't had a chance to study... Oh, you mean Apicius?
He's a Roman food writer.
He does have... There's more than one.
Oh, there is?
Yeah.
I'll send you something.
Oh, I'd love to see that.
See, here are all the recipes here.
It's just a pastiche of recipes from a variety of sources.
And I didn't get any... I don't know.
Okay, sure.
See, but it's just, I read through these books, and I think, well, this one looks kind of interesting, so I put it in in the right place.
Louie must have been nuts over this one.
Well, he kind of liked it, but he never really, and then I thought, okay,
How different are the vegetables?
What kind of vegetables did they have?
When I talked about soy, what did they mean?
It's got nothing to do with La Choy.
What meats did they have?
What vegetable varieties?
That is, there's no such thing as a generic pea.
There's a Laxton pea, a Hotspur pea.
What you have here is a work of scholarships that likes to have a good shot at the trade market.
Why do I hope?
That was the idea.
I might actually do something practical.
But see, here are the peach varieties of the 18th century.
And where I know that one is still in the crate, a lot of it has disappeared altogether.
Well, where have I got peas?
Now, there are only two or three of the pea varieties that Jefferson actually knew that are still floating around.
You know, this may be just fussy, fussy, fussy.
Why do you pick the musicians to keep this?
Because it's the model.
It's the model.
In music, it says, play this sequence of chords and ornament it as you will.
That's essentially the way the 18th century story writers said.
You know, you have some beef, you add some gravy, and add such sweet spices as you think are appropriate to the dish.
One of them even sells.
It's so clearly a musical quotation, or it's not musical, but I've got the boxing in here.
You know, put it in until it feels right.
I forget just where that is, but it's the parallel with recreating early music and recreating 18th century cuisine are absolutely parallel in every way.
I can't find it here, what I'm thinking of.
So when do you work on this?
Late at night.
You know, a couple of recipes here, a couple of recipes there.
And you've tried a few of these things out?
Really?
Are they good?
I love them.
Do you like Chinese food?
I love Chinese food.
All right.
Chinese food is based on soy, garlic, salt,
and a few other, ginger.
This is organized around nutmeg, salt, pepper, and nutmeg.
So just imagine adding nutmeg to your Thanksgiving normal English-type dinner, and you get the impression of what this is going to be.
The nutmegs drop down.
And around 1800,
They're out of the sweeter spices and more into cayenne and spicy peppers.
So there's a transition in the century.
Are these calls from your own collections?
Don't you know the old trick?
I was talking to Sada about this.
I said, we did all these exhibitions.
I know why he did the exhibition, not to show the books, but to justify buying them, to put them in the exhibition.
You know, it's just fun.
Life offers so many interesting opportunities.
Here, just to show you another aspect, if I'm interested in music things, here are a couple of other things.
This is another project that I started quite by accident.
It helps if you're slightly demented.
Back in the 1880s, my great-grandfather was in the newspaper business in Ohio, and he worked with a guy named Frank Pixley in the mid-1880s in Akron, Ohio, P-I-X-L-E-Y.
That's chapter one.
Chapter two is I'm at Illinois Wesley.
We have a program in music theater, school of art, and school of drama.
And I'm going to a flea market.
The library hasn't had, so far, too much of a collection on music theater.
So I think, well, gee, how many examples of music theater can I get in piles of sheet music for real cheap?
I find, when I'm there, I forget whether it was the Prince of Pilsen or King Dodo.
a show from Chicago with the music by Gustav Luters and the music by Frank Pixley.
And I said, this sounds like the same guy who worked with my own great-grandfather in Ohio in the 1880s and must be a relative.
It's no relative.
It's the same guy.
He had left Ohio, come to Chicago.
He was editor of a newspaper.
And on the side, he used to write the words for musicals.
This led me to get interested in Chicago Musical Theater.
No one else, seemingly, so far as I can tell, ever made a list of musicals before 1920, launched in Chicago.
But there you have, this is for you, an attempt at it.
You know, again, I just started doing this because
I was finding the stuff, and nobody else had it, so I thought I put it in.
Obviously, you found all the stuff around here, then.
Well, around here, from dealers in New England, or dealers would send me a box through the mail.
Yeah, yeah.
And I think there are about 120 shows.
One of my colleagues in music is actually thinking of doing a book on Chicago musical theater.
Now, I talked and talked and talked about it.
She got interested.
Babies in Toyland starts in Chicago before it goes to New York.
A lot of this stuff never goes much of anywhere, but that's why I called it.
There was a show called The Winning Miss, and that I think is a very good subset for Chicago Musical Theater.
It was great out here, but it kind of missed when it got to New York.
Are any of these particularly scarce?
Do you think any of them exist?
I'll tell you.
That's what's so interesting, and why does Yahoo throw it out?
Because I, as a sophomore working for a junior assistant librarian who just finished library school, surely knows that I am about to throw out the only excellent example of something.
It's even more insidious than that.
This kid's an employee.
These people are employed.
These are not students doing this.
This is policy.